
# katzenpost_thinclient

*A thin client for sending and receiving messages via a Katzenpost mix network.*

This pypi package provides a thin client library for interacting with a
Katzenpost mixnet.

A mix network is a type of anonymous communications network.

A thin client library is code you can use as a depencency in your
application so that it can anonymously interact with services on the
mix network. The Katzenpost client daemon is a multiplexing client;
many applications on the same device can use their thin client
libraries to connect to the daemon and interact with mixnet services
concurrently.



# Contributions

This is a work in progress and we'll require feedback from developers to make improvements.
Pull requests welcome:

https://github.com/katzenpost/thin_client



# Documentation

Here's our python API docs:
https://katzenpost.network/docs/python_thin_client.html

Here's our thin client integration guide:
https://github.com/katzenpost/website/blob/main/content/en/docs/client_integration.md



# Installation

Install katzenpost using pip:

```bash
pip install katzenpost_thiclient
```


# Running Code Examples

In the `tests/` directory AND the `examples/` directory you'll find
some simple python examples that use this library. However both of
them refer to the path to the katzenpost docker mixnet's client2's
thinclient's config, like so:

```python

docker_mixnet_thinclient_cfg = "../../katzenpost/docker/voting_mixnet/client2/thinclient.toml"
```

These examples are meant to be runned after starting a katzenpost docker mixnet.
Firstly, start the docker mixnet. For details instructions, go here: https://katzenpost.network/docs/admin_guide/docker.html
We'll be working with the Katzenpost monorepo to get the docker mixnet started: https://github.com/katzenpost/katzenpost

```bash

cd katzenpost/docker
make start wait run-ping
```

Once our docker mixnet is fully started up then we can start the client2 daemon:

```bash

cd katzenpost/client2
make warpedclientdaemon
cd cmd/kpclientd
./kpclientd -c ../../../docker/voting_mixnet/client2/client.toml
```

The above client2/client.toml should have been created by the docker Makefile
(via the `make start` command above) which sets up a new docker mixnet. Next we can
finally run our test and examples:


```bash

pytest
```

and

```bash

cd examples
python fetch_pki_doc.py
# blah blah informative output
python echo_ping.py
# blah blah informative output
```


# Additional Code Examples

We have two working example python programs that use this
thin client library:

1. stats - terminal application that prints the current mixnet status
   https://github.com/katzenpost/status

2. worldmap - renders an image of the mixnet transposed over a worldmap
   https://github.com/katzenpost/worldmap



# Usage

To use this library you need to have a running Katzenpost client daemon.

Here's the client2 daemon source code:
https://github.com/katzenpost/katzenpost/tree/main/client2

That directory has a Makefile which will give you two ways to build the daemon:

1. Makefile target "warpedclientdaemon": build binary for use with docker test mixnet.
2. Makefile target "clientdaemon": build binary for production mixnet.

We recommend that you look over the client2.toml configuration file generated by
our dockerized test mixnet. Using that configuration file you can either make
the daemon listen for thin client connections on a TCP/IP socket or you can
specify a UNIX domain socket.



# Compatibility

Works with Katzenpost v0.0.40 or later.



# License

AGPLv3
